Full job description
Together, we own our company, our future, and our shared success.


As an employee-owned company, our people are Black & Veatch. We put them at the center of everything we do and empower them to grow, explore new possibilities and use their diverse talents and perspectives to solve humanity's biggest challenges in an ever-evolving world. With over 100 years of innovation in sustainable infrastructure and our expertise in engineering, procurement, consulting and construction, together we are building a world of difference.


Company : Black & Veatch Corporation

Req Id : 113054

Opportunity Type : Staff

Relocation eligible : No

Full time/Part time : Full-Time

Project Only Hire : No

Visa Sponsorship Available: No

Why Black and Veatch
Black & Veatch allows you to lend your talent and perspective to humanity’s biggest challenges in a flexible environment where you are empowered to grow and explore new possibilities. We offer competitive compensation; 401K match and benefits that start day one.


At Black & Veatch, you own your career with purpose and meaning. You are empowered to grow and explore new possibilities at every step of your career journey. Bring your big ideas knowing you are safe to be who you are and speak up with concerns or questions and put your diverse talents and perspectives to use. #LI-TF1

The Team
Black & Veatch is Ranked #4 in Top Design Firms in Power. Visit our site for more information on just a few of our projects and achievements! Conventional Generation | Black & Veatch (bv.com).


Black & Veatch’s Power Providers focuses on the holistic demands for energy generation markets that include utilities, independent power producers and new non-traditional entrants adding to the much-needed supply of secure, clean power to our industries and communities. By joining our market sector, you will have the opportunity to put sustainable energy solutions into practice.

The Opportunity
As a Senior Electrical Engineer, you may have the opportunity to:

Function as project lead and technical expert, and may have management and/or administrative responsibilities on assigned Conventional Power Generation Projects and Teams.
Develop electrical drawing deliverables including:
One line and three line diagrams
Electrical motor schematics, breaker control schematics and wiring diagrams
Power cable sizing and cable schedules
Complex engineering calculations such as: load flow, short circuit, motor starting (ETAP or SKM), Arc flash analysis (ETAP or SKM), protective relay settings, battery and charger sizing
Develop electrical equipment specifications and Bills of Materials (BOM) for procurement and construction
Create man hour budgets and schedule for projects and proposals
Attend on-site meetings, investigate existing conditions, interface with clients and provide support during construction
Extensively use Microsoft Office business systems such as ProjectWise, electrical engineering software, such as ETAP and Computer Aided Drafting Tools, such as AutoCAD to view and manipulate engineering drawing files

The selected candidate must be located or willing to relocate to one of the following Black & Veatch Flagship Power Offices - Overland Park, KS (Kansas City); Houston, TX; Cary, NC (Raleigh); Chattanooga, TN; Ann Arbor, MI; or Phoenix, AZ.

Key Responsibilities
Proactively provides guidance and direction on department design guides, standards, systems, applicable engineering codes and B&V policies. May own, maintain, update, or develop engineering standards and guides. Provide technical guidance to others regarding projects or disciplines.
Applies knowledge and ensures compliance with B&V quality program. Establishes related processes, and promotes a culture that is conducive to quality. Supports continuous improvement, change management and risk management efforts.
Prepares a variety of complex engineering deliverables for multiple or mega projects. Performs complex research and develops recommendations for equipment and/or materials selection. Oversees collection, assimilation, and management of data for engineering work.
Prepares complex engineering calculations following standard methods and principles. Manages assigned budget, schedule, and quality requirements. Develops and applies advanced engineering solutions to complex problems. Responsible for ensuring project teams delegate appropriate tasks to lower level team members to develop depth of project execution staff. Reviews lower level engineering work or assignments. Is responsible for one or more of the following: leading production teams; coordinating multiple discipline activity; and serving as the responsible charge for projects. Establishes work plan to be applied to a given project.
Actively coordinates with all other internal/external team members on complex projects. Typically responsible for defining project schedules for single discipline or may have responsibility for multiple disciplines.
Responsible for determining identification of key client interests and drivers on projects. Communicates client interests and drivers to project team members and develops approaches to accommodate these concerns in the performance of the work on complex projects.
Works to identify future client needs and how to better position B&V for the future. May offer other services to the client. Typically provides support to business development or pursuit activities.
Serves as the technical specialist in a broad area of specialization, or in a narrow but specialized field. Develops and applies advanced engineering concepts and approaches to unique engineering problems. Typically supports multiple projects on very complex technical challenges. Typical roles include being recognized as an industry expert, participating in professional societies by presenting papers, acting as a section lead for a large or complex specialty area, an engineering consultant for larger scale projects. May support the chief engineers or top engineering management, and is accountable for discipline-specific engineering processes.
Typically oversees performance management, career planning, recognition, learning and development, and corrective actions. May participate in compensation management, succession planning, disciplinary actions, employee relations and workforce planning. Actively mentors lower level and mid level professionals and identifies successors to train in the specifics of their role.
Management Responsibilities
Supervises work of others. Responsible for hiring, discipline, and pay administration of their subordinates.
Preferred Qualifications
Project Lead experience and expertise in utility scale conventional power generation project design
Previous engineering consulting design experience in LV/MV Conventional Power Generation (i.e. combined cycle, simple cycle plants)
Quality Assurance / Quality Check (QA/QC) and project lead experience
Understand and be able to work within a schedule and manhours budget
Familiarity with applicable NEC and IEEE/ANSI standards
Experience with electrical equipment, which includes, but is not limited to: MV and LV switchgear, Secondary unit substation Transformer -GSUT, UAT, panel boards, breakers, protective relays, inverter, battery, battery chargers, disconnect switches, surge arrestors, medium voltage cable, low voltage cable, control cable, fiber optic cable
Minimum Qualifications
Bachelor's Degree in Engineering from either a recognized accredited program in their home country or the country in which the professional is practicing or equivalent experience in engineering work.
Minimum of 11 years related work experience.
Active engineering registration or licensure to support engineer of record (EOR) requirements for BV projects in applicable countries, and supports where necessary (United States PE License).
All applicants must be able to complete pre-employment onboarding requirements (if selected) which may include any/all of the following: criminal/civil background check, drug screen, and motor vehicle records search, in compliance with any applicable laws and regulations.
Certifications
Active engineering registration or licensure to support engineer of record (EOR) requirements for BV projects in applicable countries, and supports where necessary (PE License).

Work Environment/Physical Demands
Hybrid or flexible work options may be offered after the first 90 days of employment based upon manager discretion, job performance and work assignments.

Salary Plan
REG: Registered Engineering
Job Grade
017
Black & Veatch endeavors to make www.bv.com/careers accessible to any and all users. If you would like to contact us regarding the accessibility of our website or need assistance completing the application process because of a disability, please contact the Employee Relations Department at +1-913-359-1622 or via our accommodations request form. This contact information is for disability accommodation requests only; you may not use this contact information to inquire about the status of applications. General inquiries about the status of applications will not be returned.


Black & Veatch is committed to being an employer of choice by creating a valuable work experience that keeps our people engaged, productive, safe and healthy.


Our comprehensive benefits portfolio is a key component of this commitment and offers an array of health care benefits including but not limited to medical, dental and vision insurances along with disability and a robust wellness program.


To support a healthy work-life balance, we offer flexible work schedules, paid vacation and holiday time, sick time, and dependent sick time.


A variety of additional benefits are available to our professionals, including a company-matched 401k plan, adoption reimbursement, tuition reimbursement, vendor discounts, an employment referral program, AD&D insurance, pre-taxed accounts, voluntary legal plan and the B&V Credit Union. Professionals may also be eligible for a performance-based bonus program.


We are proud to be a 100 percent ESOP-owned company. As employee-owners, our professionals are empowered to drive not only their personal growth, but the company's long-term achievements - and they share in the financial rewards of the success through stock ownership.


By valuing diverse voices and perspectives, we cultivate an authentically inclusive environment for professionals and are able to provide innovative and effective solutions for clients.


BVH, Inc., its subsidiaries and its affiliated companies, complies with all Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) laws and regulations. Black & Veatch does not discriminate on the basis of age, race, religion, color, sex, national origin, marital status, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender Identity and expression, disability, veteran status, pregnancy status or other status protected by law.


Notice to External Search Firms: Black & Veatch does not accept unsolicited resumes and will not be obligated to pay a placement fee for unsolicited resumes. Black & Veatch Talent Acquisition engages with search firms directly for hiring needs.