About the job
The company “SALILLARI Sh.p.k”, Leader in the construction sector for more than 30 years, adapts to the characteristics of each project.

to create installations and innovative.

“SALILLA Sh.p.k” activities of the beginning of the functions are in: Infrastructure, Civil Construction, Water Supply, Construction Drilling, Materials Production, Engineering Works, Works in Seaport, Airport, Industrial Construction Works and Designs, Design of Civil and Industrial Works, etc.

“SALILLARI Sh.p.k” announces the vacant job position REVISTA EKONOMIST.

MAIN DUTIES:

Registering the days of all purchase invoices with entry into the warehouse.
Records the invoice of the goods to Purchase items that are not physically in the warehouse, taking into account the comparison of its quantity in a certain quantity to meet the verbal process and the right of the Chief Financial Officer and the supplier.
Registering in the financial system each item card by filling in all fields with the appropriate information.
Performs with objects of transfer of items to one of the companies, taking care to fill out the documents in a correct manner according to the company's rules.
Performs the exits of items from the warehouse always after the request that will have been received in official form.
Keeps in a journal all the exits of work tools and equipment that will be taken to use documenting the respective names as well as destinations.
Keeps under control that the status of the items does not pass with negative status.
Keeps documentation of all movements of warehouse items.
Keeps all the content of accounting items and all must be permanently the same physical.
Maintains activity for the movement of physical items in the financial program.
Participates in company inventories.
Undertakes any other task that will be assigned in an effort to meet the urgent needs of the companies.

CRITERIA THAT THE CANDIDATE MUST FULFILL:

Have higher education, Economics branch.
Have over two years of work experience as an Economist Magazine.
Age no more than 50 years old.
Use basic Microsoft Office programs.
Know finances, the Navision program.
Have many good things in the English language.